# 7. Option Structures

<script src="//yihui.org/js/math-code.js" defer></script>
<!-- Just one possible MathJax CDN below. You may use others. -->
<script defer
  src="//mathjax.rstudio.com/latest/MathJax.js?config=TeX-MML-AM_CHTML">
</script>

Several options can be compounded in what we call "Option Structures". 
This allows us to hedge out directional bets and bet purely on volatility.

The structures that we discuss here:

1. [Straddle](#straddle)
2. [Strangle](#strangle)
3. [Butterfly](#butterfly)
4. [Iron Condor](#condor)

All structures have a long and short version. 
Price and all greeks can be retrieved from the compound structures. To
see what greeks can be computed check section 
[3.The Greeks (Black Scholes)](https://carlolepelaars.github.io/blackscholes/3.the_greeks_blackscholes).

## Parameters

Reference of all symbols that are used in the formulas:

`$C$` = Call option

`$P$` = Put option

`$K$` = Strike price

## 1. Straddle <a name="straddle"></a>

Straddles are built a call and put option with the same strike price `$K$`
and the same expiration date. If applied correctly this allows you to profit 
from volatility regardless of the direction of the underlying asset.

Long straddle: `$P(K) + C(K)$`

Put straddle: `$-P(K) - C(K)$`

Use `BlackScholesStraddle`.

```python
from blackscholes import BlackScholesStraddle
straddle = BlackScholesStraddle(S=55, K=50, T=1., 
                                r=0.0025, sigma=0.15, type="long")
straddle.price() ## 7.5539
straddle.delta() ## 0.5328
```

## 2. Strangle <a name="strangle"></a>

Strangles are similar to straddles, but now the call and put
option have different strike prices. This structure can be 
profitable if you have a strong conviction that the 
underlying asset will have a large movement, 
but don't want to bet on a particular direction.

`$K_1$` = Strike price for the put.

`$K_2$` = Strike price for the call.

It must hold that `$K_1 < K_2$`

Long strangle: `$P(K_1) + C(K_2)$`

Short strangle: `$-P(K_1) - C(K_2)$`

Use `BlackScholesStrangle`.

## 3. Butterfly <a name="butterfly"></a>

The butterfly is a combination of four options. We implement this 
when we believe the future volatility of the underlying asset is 
going to be lower or higher than the implied volatility 
when long or short, respectively.

Choose three strike prices `$K_1$`, `$K_2$` and `$K_3$`.

Two conditions must hold when choosing strike prices:

- `$K_1<K_2<K_3$`

- `$K_2-K_1=K_3-K_2$` (i.e. option position should be symmetric)

Long (call) butterfly: `$C(K_1) - 2C(K_2) + C(K_3)$`

Short (put) butterfly: `$-P(K_1) + 2P(K_2) - P(K_3)$`

Use `BlackScholesButterfly`.

## 4. Iron Condor <a name="condor"></a>

The iron condor makes use of four different strike prices and
is a variant of the butterfly.

Choose four strike prices `$K_1$`, `$K_2$`, `$K_3$` and `$K_4$`

Two conditions must hold when choosing strike prices:

- `$K_1<K_2<K_3<K_4$`

- `$K_4-K_3=K_2-K_1$` (i.e. option position should be symmetric)

Long iron condor: `$P(K_1) - P(K_2) - C(K_3) + C(K_4)$`

Short iron condor: `$-P(K_1) + P(K_2) + C(K_3) - C(K_4)$`


Use `BlackScholesIronCondor`.